With databases there are a ton of them and even in my previous course we've covered the differences
between relational databases and no Eski Well databases relational databases meant that you had to define
your schemas or how your database looked beforehand and you were able to build really complex databases
this way.
And that's what postscripts is a relational database.
It's a database that allows us to have different tables that are related to one another and we define
those relationships with what we call schemas.
And again we use postscripts as a relational database to hold our users and passwords in our smart braina.
But there's a reason there's so many databases out there different databases are built to optimize different
things.
Amazon Netflix Facebook Alibaba Joh's donut shop all have different database needs to meet all these
needs.
A ton of databases can be found online.
And today we're going to talk about one of the most loved and used databases called re-edits and say
no rescue all database.
So this way we're able to learn a bit of relational database with postgresql as well as know rescue
all with red eyes red this is what we call a Noas skew all in memory database.
And by the end of the section those words are going to mean something to you.
So let's get started.
Berettas is an open source database that is often used to build really high performance scalable web
applications.
A lot of companies use rentes Now Noah skilled databases can have many different types.
You have things such as document notes guild databases.
You might have heard of Mongo D-B or Koshti.
These are really really good at storing documents.
So if you think of Linked-In profiles where your profile has all these different fields and categories
and and one user has that document like data.
In that case well these are really really good.
You have things like wide column with Cassandra and things like Graph databases Nio for Jay.
If you have a social media app for example that describes a graph like connection between its users.
Now red S is what we call a key value store and this key value relationship is a little bit similar
to how we handle objects in javascript.
We have a object property that has a value associated with it a key and a value.
And we're going to go over how we're going to use rattus in the next couple of videos.
But the one thing I want to get across is that it is an in memory database which makes it really really
fast.
You see read as is use for short lived data in our applications.
And it's often used with things like sessions or web page headcounts and in memory means you don't have
large data sets such as you would with something like Cassandra or Mongo D-B.
You have small pieces of data so tiny little pieces of data which allow us to keep it in memory.
That is the machine's memory and not on disk.
If you remember memory is something that is very easy to access on a machine and disk is a little bit
slower.
You can store a lot more information on disk but it's a little slower to access.
So with rentes you want to use it when you have small pieces of data that you need access to.
And you also don't care if you might lose some of that data.
Now even though the data is in memory it does take a snapshot every once in a while to save the current
database contents onto the disk which is great to recover from when there's unexpected shutdowns.
Wherever you have read it's running and you'll only lose the last few minutes of information.
Then based on that information we should be using rattus whenever we have small pieces of data that
isn't super super important that if the service crashes we'll be able to come back to a snapshot and
we might lose the latest information.
But we're sacrificing all of that for the speed of service.
It is super super fast and it's very very scalable.
And read just like all other databases has its unique set of data types that it can store.
And we're going to go through some of them and the next videos and you'll see that it doesn't use Eskew
Well it's no Eskew all database and we'll see how that works.
In this section we're going to get used to Rattus and then coming up when we talk about sessions and
JWT we're actually going to use rattus in a way to manage a session for us because a senior developers
we have to decide which tool is right for the job.
We should know this by now.
And although postscripts is amazing when you have tools like retests that can be really really fast
for managing small pieces of data there's some use cases where you might want to have some information
iritis and some information aren't postscripts depending on what your needs are.
And in most companies you'll see this is very very rare that a big company has just one type of database.
Most of the time they have different databases all around because they have different needs different
ways that they need to read the data and different ways that they need to write the data.
And again based on that tool they use different tools.
So we're going to learn that skill of being able to use different pieces of tools that are as databases
to work with.
While we have all right it's time to get started with Radice.
I'll see in the next one.
Buh-Bye.